# CMPS-367-Assignment-1

Problem 1: In the first problem, we create an application that helps to solve arithmetic and order of operations problems. The intended audience for this app is any student who wanna use an offline calculator to solve math problems. The problem statement is to implement an app that can solve mathematical operations the user want to solve, taking into consideration the order of operations and showing the result step by step. The features of this app are: solving arithmetic operations while respecting order, accepting integers and doubles, solving the operation entered by the user step by step, and asking the user if we want to solve another operation or just quit the app.



Problem 2: In the second problem, we create an application that provides users with the significance of their birthdate. The intended audience for this app is anyone who is interested into knowing what his birthdate (day,month,year) means. The problem statement is to implement an app that ask the user for his birthdate, so the app analyses his birthdate using switch case statements and finally display the birthdate meaning to the user. The features of this app are: asking the user for his birthdate, displaying the birthdate meaning (day,month,year), and asking the user if we want to input another birthdate or just quit the app.

Problem 3: In the third problem, we create an application that calculates the BMI based on the height,weight,age, and gender entered by the user and display the category based on the BMI range value. The intended audience for this app is anyone who wanna know his body mass index and know his category so he can decide if he should lose, maintain, or gain weight. The problem statement is to implement an app that collects user info and calculate his BMI, so the app converts the height of the user entered in feet and inches to inches and then calculate the BMI using a formula, and finally display the BMI value and the category the user belongs to. The features of this app are: asking the user for this body info, using a formula to calculate the height in inches, and calculating the BMI and showing the category the user belongs to based on the BMI value.


Problem 4: In the fourth problem, we create an application that creates multiplication table based on the ranges defined by the user. The intended audience for this app is any student who wanna display a multiplication table for any ranges he wants. The problem statement is to implement an app that generates multiplication tables based on the specified range, so the app asks the user to enter starting and ending ranges for multiplication tables and the numbers ranges, and then display the multiplication tables. The features of this app are: asking the user for the ranges of nbs and multiplication tables he want, displaying the table based on the user needs, and finally asking the user if he want to create another multiplication or just quit the app.



Problem 5: In the fifth problem, we create an application that solve mathematical operations based on the user needs. The intended audience for this app any student who wanna solve a mathematical expression. The problem statement is to implement an app that allows students to enter math operations to get solved, so the app recognize the entered operand or operation and apply the necessary mathematical operation to solve the problem. The features of this app are: asking the user for the operand and operation he wanna solve, then asking him to enter the number(s) needed, and finally solving the operations using the app's wide range of functions.
